[Kubernetes] Add docs for Filelog receiver (#3073)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/docs/kubernetes/collector/components.md

  cSpell:ignore varlibdockercontainers
---

The [OpenTelemetry Collector](/docs/collector/) supports many different receivers
and processors to facilitate monitoring Kubernetes. This section covers the
components that are most important for collecting Kubernetes data and enhancing
it.

Important Components:

- [Filelog Receiver](#filelog-receiver) - used to collect Kubernetes logs and
  application logs written to stdout/stderr.

For application traces, metrics, or logs, we recommend the
[OTLP receiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/receiver/otlpreceiver),
but any receiver that fits your data is appropriate.

## Filelog Receiver

The Filelog Receiver tails and parses logs from files. Although it's not a
Kubernetes-specific receiver, it is still the de facto solution for collecting
any logs from Kubernetes.

The Filelog Receiver is composed of Operators that are chained together to
process a log. Each Operator performs a simple responsibility, such as parsing a
timestamp or JSON. Configuring a Filelog Receiver is not trivial. If you're
using the [OpenTelemetry Collector Helm chart](../../helm/collector/)
you can use the

> [`logsCollection` preset](/docs/kubernetes/helm/collector/#logs-collection-preset)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`logsCollection` preset](../../helm/collector/#logs-collection-preset)
```

---
title: Important Components for Kubernetes
linkTitle: Components
spelling:
  cSpell:ignore filelog crio containerd logtag gotime iostream varlogpods
  cSpell:ignore varlibdockercontainers
---

> 
> ## Introduction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The [OpenTelemetry Collector](/docs/collector) supports many different receivers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [OpenTelemetry Collector](/docs/collector/) supports many different receivers
```

> The [OpenTelemetry Collector](/docs/collector) community support many different
> receivers and processors to facilitate monitoring Kubernetes. This section will
> cover the components that are most important for collecting Kubernetes data as
> well as enhancing is.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [OpenTelemetry Collector](/docs/collector) supports many different
receivers and processors to facilitate monitoring Kubernetes. This section
covers the components that are most important for collecting Kubernetes data
and enhancing it.
```

Important Components:

> - [Filelog Receiver](#filelog-receiver) - used to collector Kubernetes logs and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Filelog Receiver](#filelog-receiver) - used to collect Kubernetes logs and
```

  application logs written to stdout/stderr.

For application traces, metrics, or logs, we recommend the
[OTLP receiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/receiver/otlpreceiver),
but any receiver that fits your data is appropriate.

## Filelog Receiver

> The Filelog Receiver tails and parses logs from files. Although not a
> Kubernetes-specific receiver, it is still the defacto solution for collecting
> any logs from Kubernetes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Filelog Receiver tails and parses logs from files. Although it's not a
Kubernetes-specific receiver, it is still the de facto solution for collecting
any logs from Kubernetes.
```

The Filelog Receiver is composed of Operators that are chained together to
process a log. Each Operator performs a simple responsibility, such as parsing a
timestamp or JSON. Configuring a Filelog Receiver is not trivial. If you're

> using the [OpenTelemetry Collector Helm chart](/docs/kubernetes/helm/collector/)

Reviewer: Consider using section-relative paths since the page is within the same section (here and elsewhere in the page):

```suggestion
using the [OpenTelemetry Collector Helm chart](../../helm/collector/)
```

    - type: json_parser
      id: parser-docker
      output: extract_metadata_from_filepath
      timestamp:
        parse_from: attributes.time
        layout: '%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%S.%LZ'
    - type: move
      from: attributes.log
      to: body
    # Extract metadata from file path
    - type: regex_parser
      id: extract_metadata_from_filepath
      regex: '^.*\/(?P<namespace>[^_]+)_(?P<pod_name>[^_]+)_(?P<uid>[a-f0-9\-]{36})\/(?P<container_name>[^\._]+)\/(?P<restart_count>\d+)\.log$'
      parse_from: attributes["log.file.path"]
      cache:
        size: 128 # default maximum amount of Pods per Node is 110
    # Rename attributes
    - type: move
      from: attributes.stream
      to: attributes["log.iostream"]
    - type: move
      from: attributes.container_name
      to: resource["k8s.container.name"]
    - type: move
      from: attributes.namespace
      to: resource["k8s.namespace.name"]
    - type: move
      from: attributes.pod_name
      to: resource["k8s.pod.name"]
    - type: move
      from: attributes.restart_count
      to: resource["k8s.container.restart_count"]
    - type: move
      from: attributes.uid
      to: resource["k8s.pod.uid"]
```

> For in-depth details of how to configure a Filelog Receiver visit its
> [documentation](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/filelogreceiver).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For in-depth details of how to configure a Filelog Receiver, visit its
[documentation](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/filelogreceiver).
```

      from: attributes.uid
      to: resource["k8s.pod.uid"]
```

> For in-depth details of how to configure a Filelog Receiver, visit its
> [documentation](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/filelogreceiver).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Filelog Receiver configuration details, see 
[Filelog Receiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/filelogreceiver).
```

```yaml
---
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: DaemonSet
...
spec:
  ...
  template:
    ...
    spec:
      ...
      containers:
        - name: opentelemetry-collector
          ...
          volumeMounts:
            ...
            # Mount the volumes to the collector container
            - name: varlogpods
              mountPath: /var/log/pods
              readOnly: true
            - name: varlibdockercontainers
              mountPath: /var/lib/docker/containers
              readOnly: true
            ...
      volumes:
        ...
        # Typically the collector will want access to pod logs and container logs
        - name: varlogpods
          hostPath:
            path: /var/log/pods
        - name: varlibdockercontainers
          hostPath:
            path: /var/lib/docker/containers
        ...
```

Configuring a Filelog Receiver is not trivial. If you're using the
[OpenTelemetry Collector Helm chart](/docs/kubernetes/helm/collector/) you can
use the
[`logsCollection` preset](/docs/kubernetes/helm/collector/#logs-collection-preset)

> to get started.

Reviewer 2: Recommend moving this up to the top if it's easier.
